Prompt:

Common App Prompt #1:  Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story.  (250-650 words)

Essay:

The most beautiful part of my day is when I walk. Every morning before school, I put on my grandmother’s plush red coat, tie my white Keds, and begin on a fifteen minute journey. The rhythmic motion of my limbs, the caress of the sunlight upon my skin, this is what guides my mind to achieve clarity. My mental acuity  allows me to conceive fascinating ideas, to spill through the infinitudes of philosophical reflection, and experience captivating intrigue. Growing up,  walking was used  as a means of attaining peace in a time of instability. When it became painful to hear my mother fight with men I was supposed to love, my outdoor solace distracted the pain from amplifying. While gazing upon some classic Virginia evergreens, I questioned. Why do some stars end up as black holes? What makes my eyes dark blue? How do owls turn their heads all the way back? I dared to find explanations, letting my tiny fingers tear through pages of astrophysics books and biology encyclopedias. I drowned in documentaries about the stars and studied YouTube videos of violinists playing Paganini. And when my grandparents came to visit me during times of hardship, I asked them about ballet and music and DNA,  thirsting to discover my breathtaking world. As a result of my flourishing inquisitiveness, I inevitably developed a fascination with my family that encouraged me to learn about my family’s walks. These were not walks in the purely literal sense, but rather walks generated by journeying life itself. My mother and grandmother’s encounter with oppression and assault while living in Iran  aroused in me a fierce fervor for combating evil.  Yet my adoptive father and grandfather’s encounters with plummeting aircrafts and chemical weapon attacks instilled an intense wonder about the psychological and moral implications of war. Moreover,  these experiences  intensified my thirst for learning and a desire to become a positive contributor to our ever-competitive global society.  To quench this thirst, I submerged myself in my own ocean of intellectually invigorating walks. These walks have provided me invaluable experiences: I have toured the streets of Nuremberg with Hegel,  idolizing his ideas  on human consciousness. But I have glided across the glossy tiles of Hwa Chong Institute with my Singaporean research partners, latching onto the scientific complexity that drips from their lips. I have trudged past the mud-brick houses of Tehran with my great-uncle, marvelling at the blossoming political intellectualism within Iranian artists. Yet I have shrunk my frame into the dimensions of my  pHEMA-VP hydrogel nanoparticles, exploring its polymeric networks  with excitement and awe. My movement has fueled my hunger to learn more about biology, my desire for my cosmetic business to excel, my romance with learning political philosophy.  This movement, this is what defines me.  Indeed, my walks have also taught me how my intellectual endeavors satiate my love for the journey more than for the destination. For it is  the pursuit of knowledge, with all its undulations, which electrifies the lover of wisdom more than the knowledge  itself. In fact, arriving at my destinations have often provided my spirit a sharp, bittersweet sting. Like the stub end of a cucumber, I have tasted the unpleasantness of departing the people who have taught me and the experiences which have coached me:  time has grinned at me with a gleam of schadenfreude.  But I have also savored the sweet, ironic enlightenment that destinations provide: there is no end to my experiments in life. I will never cease to develop inwardly. My life is one that has converted  the pursuit of intellectual endeavors from the machine of my destiny into the servant of my will.  Walks have taught me to be patient, but to also live passionately and authentically. With my plush red coat and white Keds, I walk onward,  for the wisdom of life is gained by walking through life itself.

Review:

B Satisfactory The essay is written competently and demonstrates a reasonable display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is functional but may not be as compelling as other essays. It is likely to be considered adequately by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

