Prompt:

Common App Prompt #7:  Share an essay on any topic of your choice. It can be one you've already written, one that responds to a different prompt, or one of your own design.  (250-650 words)

Essay:

I want to be a billionaire. Vietnam's busy streets, heavy with tropical heat, filled with horns blaring, scented with the aroma of freshly cooked street food—starkly contrasting the harsh reality of homelessness that burrowed in the city. From the backseat of my mother's well-worn motorbike, I observed the hardships of many—the homeless, the hungry, the struggling masses. As we drove past a disheveled man on the sidewalk, I asked my mom if we could give him some money. She replied that we could barely afford our own needs. Still, her eyes held a sadness, knowing she couldn’t help. I envisioned a future where basic needs are met for all, where humanity could leave the lowest level of Maslow's hierarchy behind for good. How could I play a part in making that vision a reality? I want to become fortunate enough to lend a helping hand to every person I pass. I believe every human who has ever existed, or will ever exist, is part of a larger, reincarnating soul—and the cosmos is just... an egg . This concept comes from Andy Weir's short story The Egg. In another life, it could have been me on the streets. I could be that homeless man, that struggling mom, that starving child. My first job as a waiter allowed me to take a small step toward my dream. I shared some of my modest earnings with the homeless I passed by on the streets. It felt right. It felt human. It warmed my heart. Yet, I began to question the real impact of my donations. This nagging doubt led me to William MacAskill's Doing Good Better, where I discovered Effective Altruism—a philosophy of maximizing impact. The book mentioned the infamous case study, the PlayPump initiative in Africa. This project aimed to use children's play energy on a merry-go-round to pump clean water. However, it backfired because the children tired quickly, leaving women to push the heavy merry-go-round themselves, far less efficient than traditional hand pumps. I learned an invaluable lesson: empathy alone isn’t enough; it needs to be combined with analytical rigor—"to have the head of a serpent and the heart of a dove," as the Bible puts it. While giving direct cash to the homeless eased my heart, it was unlikely to provide lasting solutions. I took action on my newfound philosophy and pledged 10% of my income to the Giving What We Can nonprofit to effective evidence-based charities. To find lasting solutions, I co-organized [Redacted] Effective Altruism to build a community focused on analytical and empathetic giving. I partnered with local nonprofits to improve their funding effectiveness through the Local Impact Evaluation project. Beyond dollars, we helped reshape our city's culture of giving by inspiring heart and mind, where empathy meets evidence. Our collective efforts to tackle local issues through rigorous analysis and compassion were born from a desire to make an impact far beyond one individual. "But, how can I improve this research on a larger scale?" I want to develop AI systems that evaluate charities’ effectiveness. However, AI’s power to revolutionize humanity, as highlighted in Mo Gawdat's book Scary Smart, comes with ethical responsibilities. This understanding led me to explore the intersection of AI and Philosophy. I aim to combine technical skills with a strong moral compass to ensure that AI not only enhances efficiency but also upholds moral values. In the future, I want to research this topic alongside the Effective Altruism community around the world. I want to be a billionaire—not for the sake of wealth, but to touch a billion lives. When my journey on this Earth ends, when I find myself back to our cosmic egg, I hope to be greeted by a human- sized entity, but grander than life itself, fist bumps me and smiles. You did a great job. Thank you. Oh, and I'll leave with zero—in my bank account, but not my soul's ledger.

Review:

A Excellent The essay is well-written and demonstrates a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is engaging and effective. It is likely to be very well-received by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

