Prompt:

Common App Prompt #6:  Describe a topic, idea, or concept you find so engaging that it makes you lose all track of time. Why does it captivate you? What or who do you turn to when you want to learn more?  (250-650 words)

Essay:

I have seen 2017’s  Power Rangers   exactly five times in theaters, and it was the best 50 dollars I ever spent. There is nothing extraordinary about a movie filled with gaping plotholes, inconsistent writing, and cheesy cliches: what makes  Power Rangers   unique is its diversity.  The content we consume should properly represent our world, and  Power Rangers  does just that. The film’s positive representation of marginalized groups is a stepping stone for Hollywood;  four out of the five rangers are people of color, one is autistic, and another is queer. Power Rangers  wasn’t the catalyst for my passion regarding diversity, but it demonstrates how eagerly I will consume anything with realistic representation. From as early as elementary school,  I knew that, as an Asian girl coming home to watch the Disney Channel, there were few people who looked like me whom I could idolize.  My white friends could relate to the shows’ families, yet my household customs never appeared on screen. The few Asians that did appear faded into the background, forgotten by the audience or reduced to racist caricatures. Ironically, I never realized the harmful effects of this erasure until I discovered proper Asian representation.  Believing that my race made me inferior in our white-dominant society, I unconsciously succumbed to the “reserved and quiet” Asian stereotype,  purposefully shying away from the spotlight. When I finally saw Asians as protagonists, my craving for diverse media grew, and I sought to learn as much about the importance of minority representation as I could. The countless TED talks and think pieces I discovered, which described the conundrum of marginalization I had encountered, helped me come to terms with the experience, and to recognize the need for change. Despite the  contemporary push for female-driven narratives, I know that Hollywood’s fixation on “white as default” remains  (Leia and Rey from  Star Wars , Wonder Woman and Black Widow of DC and Marvel Comics). I know that when storylines showcasing cultures of color become popular, producers want to cast white actors for roles - even if whitewashed movies have collectively lost $500 million in revenue over the years. I know that LGBT characters of color are virtually nonexistent. I know that the problem extends beyond actors to people behind the scenes, that  most scriptwriters, directors, authors, and producers are still straight white men. As someone whose identity has historically been ignored by the media, my existence is validated by the rare but increasing presence of Asians in books, movies and TV. Seeing Asian content creators use their platforms to talk about the importance of representation and their firsthand experiences in fighting bigotry  inspires me, in turn, to engage in my own brand of activism.  I’ve participated in a panel about race relations following a school incident in which we discussed topics ranging from the danger of whitewashing to living life as a minority - ideas I’ve  pursued more intensely in my blog. Additionally, I co-founded my school’s first multimedia magazine  in the hopes of offering others a means of self-expression. I continuously challenge myself to push past society’s ideals of what I can and cannot accomplish; by using my voice, I strive to educate others while simultaneously educating myself. With a college education , I hope to further explore the damaging psychological effects a lack of representation or, worse, erasure of representation can cause, and study ways to reverse or even prevent them. Most importantly,  we must make it easier for marginalized groups to share their stories. After all, if more people start advocating for more diversity, positive representation will emerge  - a recent example being  Hidden Figures , whose empowering portrayal of black women was universally praised and inspired people everywhere. My race and gender will always play a huge part in who I am. So  instead of letting the media dictate how people like me are perceived, I am ready to write my own narrative.

Review:

A Excellent The essay is well-written and demonstrates a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is engaging and effective. It is likely to be very well-received by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

Why This Essay Works (Positive Feedback):

Embraces Their Identity : If your cultural background or identity is an important part of who you are, then writing about it can make for a compelling essay. Often times in college admissions, Asian-Americans in particular are advised to "hide" their ethnic background, because it can be perceived to hurt their application. This student embraces their Asian heritage by recognizing ways in which they faced societal barriers. As this essay shows, regardless of your identity, there are unique aspects you can delve into that can make for compelling topics. Shows Self-Reflection : This essay does a great job of reflecting upon previously held beliefs, such as "I unconsciously succumbed to the 'reserve and quiet' Asian stereotype," and challenging them. Questioning your beliefs and where they came from can often be a good starting point for interesting reflection. Showing your new perspectives over time also conveys self-growth. Ask yourself: what did I once believe (in regards to myself, an activity, other people, etc.), what do I believe now, and how has this changed? Incorporates Activities Naturally : Rather than starting off with an activity and then reflecting upon it, this student takes a different approach. By introducing an interesting idea (the representation of underrepresented groups in media) and then later connecting to their activities, it makes the incorporation of those extracurriculars seem more appropriate and natural. The last thing you want to do is list your activities plainly, but it's still important to reference them. One strategy to naturally talk about your activities and accomplishments is to attach them to interesting ideas, as this essay shows.

