Prompt: 

Common App Prompt #5:  Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.  (250-650 words)

 Essay: 

As I sat alone in a crowded airport, I felt both excitement and nervousness. I took my laptop and opened it to the Facebook profile of my third cousin Joey.  I remembered how curious I was the first time I learned about his existence.  He seemed just like me. I could not have been more excited, for I was on my way to New Jersey to spend spring break at his parents’ house. It may seem strange that I was so eager to meet a third cousin, as most Americans have minimal contact with relatives as distant as third cousins. Meeting distant relatives meant expanding the family tree, forming new connections, and expanding support networks. Setting down new roots by travelling to New Jersey to meet Joey  not only felt right but also necessary. After landing and meeting Joey and his mom Alla, I felt awkward; we had absolutely nothing to discuss. ​ Maybe visiting people I have never met was a mistake. That night  Alla explained to me that partner dominos was a family tradition dating back 50 years in the Soviet Union. I had never played dominos with a partner. Absolutely stunned, Alla cried, “YOU HAVE NEVER PLAYED PARTNER DOMINOS?  HOW THE HELL IS YOUR MOTHER RAISING YOU? ” The rest of the night we played partner dominos, and let me admit, I was awful. Nevertheless, I experienced a strong sense of belonging and connection to my heritage by taking part in an old family tradition. That game broke the ice and made me realize that we share a cultural and personal connection; starting with that game, I actually felt like we were family members. Unsure of what else my mom had neglected, Alla inundated me with an entire rundown of my extended family. I learned that I could travel to almost every continent, knowing there would always be someone to whom I am related. Due to my family’s Russian heritage, I would always be welcome,  adept at partner dominos or not. A week later when I sat waiting for my flight home, I smiled. People whom I had just met, who had their own busy lives to live, took me in and made me feel welcome. At the end of the visit, I felt as if I had known Joey and Alla my entire life. I had to acknowledge that I had underestimated the need for extended family in my life. Furthermore, as I contemplated the transition from stranger to family member, my mind took me further to comprehend  that whether related or not, I would live a more fulfilling life if willing to make vital connections.  I consider every person with whom I forge a connection part of my “family” network, regardless of how remote. Though I had thought of “family” as merely a support system, I realized now that it is comprised of the people who, through powerful shared experiences, help one find a place in the world. When I launch into the next phase of my life,  I am hoping to forge relationships with roommates, classmates, and professors.  As a global citizen, I am also dedicated to connect with others and help them find a place in this world,  just like Alla and Joey did for me.

 Review: 

A Excellent The essay is well-written and demonstrates a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is engaging and effective. It is likely to be very well-received by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

 Why This Essay Works 

Positive Feedback: 
Shows Personality : It's important to create a "voice" in your personal statement, so that admissions officers can imagine your character and personality. Try to write as you would speak, but refined and polished. In this essay, natural-sounding phrases like "...let me admit, I was awful..." humanizes the author and makes the reader feel like they're being spoken to. Compelling Narrative : This essay is a perfect example of how effective essays don't need to have a super unusual story to be compelling. What makes this essay's story compelling is not necessarily the topic itself (meeting distant relatives), but instead how the student reflects and makes interesting connections to broader ideas. Even seemingly mundane experiences can make for meaningful personal statements topics.

Negative Feedback: 
Stronger Conclusion : This conclusion works well by connecting to the main story of the essay. However, certain phrases like "As a global citizen" and "I am hoping to forge relationships" are potentially too generic. Instead, try taking your main idea (in this case forming connections with others) and broaden it or connect to more universal ideas.

