Prompt: 

Common App Prompt #6:  Describe a topic, idea, or concept you find so engaging that it makes you lose all track of time. Why does it captivate you? What or who do you turn to when you want to learn more?  (250-650 words)

 Essay: 

As I was going to St. Ives, Upon the road I met seven wives; Every wife had seven sacks, Every sack had seven cats: Cats, sacks, and wives, How many were going to St. Ives? I have three principles that define my searches for the best riddles:  1) Riddles should be tricky but not impossible. 2) Riddles should be shared with friends. 3) A riddle should always have a solution. Growing up, I followed these guidelines to find a treasure trove of engaging problems, including  puzzles about doors that only tell truths and lies, prisoners in monochromatic hats, and of course, the aforementioned St. Ives rhyme. Part of  what I love so much about riddles is that as difficult as they are, there is always a solution.  Even the most confounding question has an answer that can perfectly satisfy it. I love to  wrap my mind around the possibilities of a logic conundrum and parse through an intricate labyrinth of mental avenues.  As a child, I enjoyed the process of solving a riddle, but the deepest satisfaction for me  came from the end result , the acquisition of an answer unlocking the problem's secrets. Information was my favored currency  in  Elementary and Middle  school. I enthralled my friends with questions in exchange for the satisfaction of possessing secrets undiscovered by any other.  Over peanut butter and sliced ham, I assumed the role of story teller among our lunch group, facilitating a discussion on the particularities of a murder mystery puzzle. As I grew older and invariably more aware of my place in the world, I began to encounter new types of riddles. Unlike my playful games and puzzles that existed in their own vacuums of imagined space,  these questions encroached on major world issues with deep implications on society  as a whole. Is language inherently limiting as a form of expression? How do we uphold the marginalized without sacrificing the majority? Are aliens real? The riddles of life were not as straightforward as the puzzles in my books and websites. In fact, they were not straightforward at all, like winding mazes of philosophical quandary. As is my nature to ask questions, it is also my nature to at least attempt to answer them, even if they have already faced the mental battering of minds far greater than my own. Diving into books, websites, and documentaries,  I pulled apart cotton-candy strings  of possibilities. One of the most thought-provoking subjects that preoccupies my mind regards the existence of aliens. Initially, my mind was settled on the possibility of intelligent life. A universe so big could not possibly be lifeless. However, my research on this subject has led me in a different direction.  The contradictions between the statistical likelihood of aliens and a historical lack of contact (aka the Fermi Paradox) alludes to a possible scarcity or even absence of extraterrestrials.  Furthermore, this theory has interesting implications on future environmental destruction and its role as a Great Filter impeding full intergalactic potential. The Fermi Paradox. The Hopi tribe. Group polarization. My desire for knowledge has led me to the farthest ends of human discovery. I have written dozens of essays, debated with friends and family, made endless lists of information, and evaluated and re-evaluated my opinions,  always with the understanding that there is still more to know. Obviously, I have not definitively answered these questions.  Obviously, I have much to learn.  But rather than feel discouraged by the impossibilities of these problems, I am ready to seek the far reaches of human thought and even surpass those barriers. I have found a new satisfaction in life:  not the achievement of a solution but simply its pursuit, the challenge of trying to find an answer to a question that may not even have one. As for the solution to the riddle at the start: How many were going to St. Ives? Just one, me.

 Review: 

B + Good The essay is well-written and demonstrates a satisfactory display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is competent but may not be as engaging as other essays. It is likely to be considered favorably by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

 Why This Essay Works 

Positive Feedback: 
Central Theme : This essay does well by having a unique central topic—riddles—which allows the author to draw out interesting ideas related to this theme. Your topic doesn't necessarily need to be profound or hugely significant, because this author shows how you can take a seemingly unimportant topic and use it to make meaningful connections. In this essay, riddles grow to represent something greater than the activity itself, which is something you can do with almost any topic. Concrete Examples : One of the most effective ways to "show, not tell" is to use specific and tangible examples. This essay does a great job of exemplifying their ideas. Rather than just saying "I enthralled my friends with questions," the author also shows this: "Over peanut butter and sliced ham, I assumed the role of story teller..." Examples are always more convincing because they are proof, and allow the reader to interpret for themselves. Don't tell the reader what you want them to think. Instead, set up moments that guide the reader to come to those conclusions themselves.

Negative Feedback: 
Contrived Conclusion : This conclusion connects back to the beginning, which is generally a good idea as it creates a cohesive structure. However, this ending doesn't quite make sense in the context of the riddle. Rather than creating new meaning, it comes off as arbitrary and contrived. Make sure your conclusion isn't creative just for creative-sake, and instead also has significant meaning attached to it.

