Prompt:

Common App Prompt #5:  Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.  (250-650 words)

Essay:

The judge called “the prosecution may begin to question the defendant.”  I shuddered quietly to myself as I smoothed my skirt and rose slowly from the chair. As I began to speak, I gained my confidence. My statement rolled off my tongue, as I projected my voice throughout the courtroom.  “Would you please provide a rendition of events during this incident?” I asked. But, the testimony given was not in compliance with the pre-court interview notes from the previous weeks. This defendant was sent to Ontario County Youth Court for  consuming acid  in school. I continued to question cautiously, but finally caught the defendant in a blatant lie. I calmly stated,  “You are under oath and by lying, you are committing a federal offense of perjury. I would please ask you to tell the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so the jury can reach an appropriate sentence.”  I could see the defendant squirm during this confrontation. But, I was holding the upper hand, and lying could not undermine my self-assurance. The case progressed with a sense of caution, for the  power of prosecution can dampen the mood. I have always been a searcher ; for new opportunities, new friends, and a true passion. I have taken dance classes for  fifteen  years because I enjoy the creativity of movement, exercise, and my friendships with other dancers. But, dance is not my calling in life or deepest passion. I have taken  tennis, golf, skiing, snowboarding, ice skating, sailing, sailboarding, scuba diving, and even sewing lessons.  But these are also  merely hobbies or interests.  Freshman year, after  fourteen years of searching , I finally discovered my true passion and calling in life: a career in law. I live on a dirt road and attend a small, rural school.  There is not a single traffic light in the entire school district.  But, these factors of seclusion have never hindered my appetite for exploration. One day, I saw a poster hanging in the atrium of my school about an information night regarding Ontario County Youth Court. On a whim, I decided to attend.  I have always been an advocate for trying new activities, or else passions can never be unleashed and discovered.  Without leaving one’s comfort zone and broadening one’s horizons, we can never grow as people. That evening, I sat in a room with  fifteen other  strangers and learned about restorative justice principles and careers in law. I was hooked.  At that moment, I realized this my calling. After completing a 20-hour training process, being inducted as a full member of youth court, and religiously attending youth court cases each month, my thirst was still unquenched.  Therefore , I became involved in court evaluating. Local court officials are assessed by volunteers to ensure they are fulfilling their duties to the community.  Watching judges mandate reprimands for speeding tickets might be dull for some, but I find it fascinating.  The legal system has such a vast array of powers and professions. I have continued to  expand my knowledge  by attending local, district, and circuit courts, along with touring a jail. While I was first motivated to join Ontario County Youth Court for the sake of self-exploration and serving my community, I discovered my passion for law. By interacting with a vast array of youth offenders, I have had the opportunity to see the world others live in. Now,  I have the ability to understand other people’s circumstances and social pressures.  Most importantly, I have fully encompassed the  value of prioritizing the common good above individual success.

Review:

B - Adequate The essay is written competently but may not showcase a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is functional but may not be as engaging as other essays. It is likely to be considered as average by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

Why This Essay Works (Positive Feedback):

Shows Interest In "Mundane" Activities : One great way to have interesting ideas is to show things that you find fascinating that other people may find boring. This essay describes how a judge mandating "reprimands for speeding tickets might be dull for some," but how they find it interesting. Everything, even the seemingly mundane, has interesting aspects if you're willing to look closely enough. When brainstorming, ask yourself: what do I find fascinating that others find boring? What do I think is "fun" while others may think it is "hard" or boring? By following these threads, you can often find unique and compelling ideas that allow you to bring the reader into your world and show them how you see the world uniquely.

Why This Essay Needs Improvement (Negative Feedback):

Story-Like Intro Is Weak : A common trap when writing a personal statement is to use a descriptive, fiction-like story to start your essay. Although this may sound like a good idea, it is often ineffective because it buries what is most interesting (your ideas and reflections) and can easily be long and drawn out. Short, concise stories with a focus can be effective introductions, but in general avoid overly descriptive storytelling to start your essay. Also, avoid describing things that aren't critical to your main point. There is little to no benefit in describing things like "I smoothed my skirt and rose  slowly from the chair." Focus on why your stories matter, rather than telling stories in a descriptive manner. Lacks In-Depth Ideas : This essay does have some reflections, particularly about how the author discovered their passion for law by joining the Youth Court. However, most of these ideas end there, and there aren't any deep, unique ideas. The closest the author comes to having a unique and compelling idea is the final sentence where they write "the value of prioritizing the common good above individual success." This could be a fascinating topic to explore, but ultimately is cut short because it is tagged onto the ending. Your focus when brainstorming and drafting should be to have specific and original ideas—ideas that are not generic, not cliché, and not surface-level. To get to those ideas, ask yourself probing questions like "Why" and "How" over and over.

