Prompt: 

Common App Prompt #6:  Describe a topic, idea, or concept you find so engaging that it makes you lose all track of time. Why does it captivate you? What or who do you turn to when you want to learn more?  (250-650 words)

 Essay: 

Right, Up, Right inverted, Up inverted was what went through my mind when solving the Rubik’s cube. Years of solving the Rubik’s cube allowed me to hone my skills making the puzzle  almost as easy as puzzles from my childhood.  I remember when I first started tackling puzzles they were very simple.  Word Searches were my favorite and I could do them for hours and hours. Once, I finished a whole book of them in only a few days because I had become so infatuated with them.  I slowly made my way to harder puzzles and when I was in 5th grade, my aunt introduced me to a puzzle game on the Nintendo DS called Professor Layton and The Curious Village. I would play the game nonstop trying to solve all the puzzles the game had to offer and often, I would go past my bedtime. It was then that I knew I had a love for puzzles  as it challenged my mind and forced me to think differently. My love for puzzles led me to buying a Rubik’s cube after I saw my friend solve his own. I bought my first Rubik’s cube in 7th grade and it had me perplexed . Learning how to solve a Rubik’s cube was, at the time, a tough challenge for me, as the Rubik’s cube can be mixed up to any of the  43,252,003,274,489,856,000 possible combinations.  In the beginning, I was unable to follow the guide that came with the first Rubik’s cube I bought, but then I searched up a tutorial on YouTube and learned by watching.  Utilizing  my skill of memory, I was able to remember possible patterns that the Rubik’s cube could be after each step, and I was able to perform the correct algorithm to complete the step. After I learned how to solve a Rubik’s cube and learned that it could be solved many ways,  it lead to me  memorizing as many of the  fifty-seven possible permutations of the third step, and all of the twenty-one  permutations of the last step. I memorized the turns of each algorithm and visualized the process in my head, so I would be able to remember how to perform it. I never get tired of solving it, because there are so many combinations that every time I mix it up, there is a different solution. My outlook of the world changed, as I realized that there is not one concrete solution to everything, but multiple solutions. Being able to see things differently,  the ways I solved some problems with multiple solutions were uncommon amongst my classmates . My 10th grade math teacher had acknowledged this when he wrote a comment on my test, saying he had not thought about solving a problem the way I had solved it.  At that moment, I gained a new perspective in approaching the challenges of life. The little puzzles and obstacles that we encounter throughout our lifetime are  preparation in order for us to solve the everlasting mystery of life , which is why I love all kind of puzzles. When I was younger, I faced one of these obstacles, which was the divorce of my parents. I wanted to know why my mother left and no longer lived in my house, but I was not able to understand exactly what had happened. Puzzles became my escape as I knew that all puzzles have an answer ; they had unknowingly become a large part of my childhood as they made sense to me unlike what was going on in my life. Now I have come to see that  life is a puzzle and that we must find the solution to it.  Realizing that life is a puzzle in itself, I now openly accept and embrace the  challenge of going through life with a new perspective,  as I would any other puzzle.

 Review: 

C + Needs Improvement The essay is written competently but may be lacking in areas such as showcasing of ideas and genuine personality, and the writing style may not be as engaging. It is likely to require revisions before given a more favorable consideration by the admissions committee Learn about how we evaluate essays →