Prompt:

Common App Prompt #7:  Share an essay on any topic of your choice. It can be one you've already written, one that responds to a different prompt, or one of your own design.  (250-650 words)

Essay:

I close my eyes and find myself within a forest of lights. The diamond leaves of gnarled oak trees throw spectrums of color onto mounds of frosty snow that gleam melancholily under the moonlight. The leaves chime as wind violently rustles them in a haunting melody. I splinter a leaf off its branch and inspect the shard of my illusion, eyes dancing with amusement. I breathe a cloud into the nipping air and half­consciously crunch through a path of snow as it languorously carves its way through the forest.  I walk to the sound of clinking, broken gems as they scratch my ankles, and wonder what circuitry must be alight in my wits to create this particular fantasy. I stumble along in hope of unravelling this enigma, my mind guiding me on its own inclination. The path opens up at last, and I approach a cabin shrouded by thick fog.  The door opens for me and I wonder at the foreboding as I sit in a cherry­wood chair and sip a sparkling chartreuse drink.  My feet swing idly as I listen to the forest’s indiscernible whispers, wondering whether my mind would ever allow me to unstitch its knots. As I dwell in my worries, a cold hand reaches from behind me and taps my shoulder. I jerk away, fear bubbling in my amygdala as I look into the nonexistent eyes of my intruding visitor. The moon illuminates a blob of pink squish as it draws back slowly, points its spindly hands towards my drink and asks: “Could I have some of that?” I wordlessly  offer the eerie thing some Mountain Dew.  I watch as it eagerly chugs the drink, and think, Ah.  My mind is definitely acting strangely today. The blob wipes its invisible mouth with its nonexistent sleeve. I ask: “What are you?” It shakes its head, invigorated with soda. “S’pose it’s natural not to recognize me.” The thing smiles ominously and  declares itself as my brain. I stare mutely at the absurd being.  I wonder at how I will be able to paint it  in my waking state. The blob tells me to stop looking at it so suspiciously. “I can prove it,” It says. I tell it, please, go ahead. Suddenly we are back in the glowing forest. “Diamonds? Pah!” The blob dismisses them. Instantly, the leaves turn solid gold, the snow melts, and the wintry world is thrown into a blistering summer. The blob laughs heartlessly. “Your cortex is under my control,” it says smugly. I blink under the sudden intensity and acknowledge  its greatness, humbled by its supremacy. “I heard you had a question for me?” It taps its invisible ears knowingly. This is perfect, I think. Here I was all this time  wandering through my mind, searching for the answer, when now I could ask my brain for it directly. The blob wriggles its invisible brows as it waits. I open my mouth and  ask it my most crucial question. It smiles that wicked smile. It laughs that sinful laugh. Then that insufferable blob wakes me up. As I sit up in the dark and rub my bleary eyes, I am vaguely aware of the deep­set unfulfillment settling itself inside me. I yawn and plop back into bed, the soft red glow of my alarm clock indicating that it is still before midnight. I cover myself with blanket, and drift back into sleep  to continue my search.

Review:

B - Adequate The essay is written competently but may not showcase a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is functional but may not be as engaging as other essays. It is likely to be considered as average by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

Why This Essay Works (Positive Feedback):

Creative Structure and Premise : One thing is for sure about this essay: it has a unique idea that has surely not been written before. Regardless of your topic, you want your essay to be unique in some way, even if it isn't as fantastical as this essay. You can use a unique structure, such as having central symbolism, metaphor, or being structured as a recipe, for example. But this can easily become "gimmicky" if it doesn't have a clear purpose. In general, the most effective way to have a unique essay is to focus on having deep and unique ideas and reflections. By focusing on interesting takeaways and connections that are ultra-specific to you and your experiences, your essay will standout regardless of the structure.

Why This Essay Needs Improvement (Negative Feedback):

Unnecessary And Long Descriptions : This essay uses a lot of fiction-like writing that is fantastical and "flowery." Although moments of this kind of writing can make your essay more vivid, it is quite easy to end up with dense storytelling and descriptions that ultimately don't share anything interesting about you. The purpose of your essay is ultimately to learn about you: your values, your ideas, your identity, etc. By using dense story-like writing, it can be easy to lose focus of what admissions officers are looking for. In general, avoid writing "fancy" stories like this essay, unless you have a clear and distinct purpose for doing so. Everything in your essay should have a purpose in "going somewhere" (i.e. reaching interesting ideas and takeaways).  Lacks Meaningful Reflections : This essay is definitely creative, but lacks meaningful takeaways and ideas. By the end of the essay, we don't know much about the author besides the fact that they have an affinity for creative writing and are "on a search." Although the content is unique, the end result comes off as quite generic and surface-level because no interesting thoughts are explored deeply. The most interesting part of this essay is "I open my mouth and ask it my most crucial question," but this is super unsatisfying because the question is never divulged. Instead, the reader is teased by this fantasy story and the essay goes nowhere meaningful, which comes off as gimmicky and "creative for creative's sake," rather than deeply personal and interesting. Weak Conclusion : This essay ends on the idea of "continuing my search," but for what exactly? It is never explained, elaborated, or even implied (besides one reference to painting earlier). That makes this conclusion comes off as somewhat surface-level and uninteresting. Admissions officers won't care about "your search" unless they have a reason to care. That is, unless it tells something specific about you. On it's own, this idea of "exploring" and "searching" is meaningless because it is too broad and unelaborated.

