Prompt: 

Common App Prompt #5:  Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.  (250-650 words)

 Essay: 

You are 7 years old.  A girl you are trying to befriend tells you that she does not want to be friends with you because your eyes are “ugly and squinty.” Hot tears run down your face because you do not understand the reason for her ugly words. You are 13 years old. It is Halloween and on Instagram you see two of your classmates dress up as Asians. Their faces are painted yellow and their eyes are pulled back with tape. The caption reads, “can’t find the dogs to eat with our eye slits!” People ask if you are offended.  You do not want to be seen as uptight so you laugh it off.  Numerous incidents like these dot your childhood. You do not want to be Asian anymore. You hate your hideous Asian face. I had always been shy as a kid and the environment I was raised in only exacerbated my growing insecurities.  My school’s population was 99% white, so I had no friends of my own ethnicity  and often faced the brunt of people’s ignorance. In middle school, everyone suddenly started caring about looks. I wanted so badly to look like my Caucasian classmates and worked tirelessly to try to erase my “Asian” features.  I bleached my hair and skin. I glued my eyelids into double folds  and wore eye-enlarging contacts.  I spent countless hours researching plastic surgeons  that could “Westernize” my looks.  I was utterly obsessed with how others perceived me. My insecurities were loud, and they attracted unwanted attention  from other students who bullied me. At this point I lacked friends in  real life  and began to find solace on the internet, my getaway from the burdens of real life. People could not judge me based on how I looked, only by my words. I was playing an online game where I met my first Asian friend, Ethan. He had a pride in his ethnicity I never had. After getting to know me better,  Ethan asked why I tried so hard to reject my heritage. He wanted to know why I never showed my face.  Over time, on the internet, I started to meet more people of my ethnicity who became my role models and cherished friends. After constant reflection and studying psychology, I began to understand my past in a new light. The ignorant people who ridiculed me  faced stress and insecurity in their own lives  that spurred their actions. Thereafter, I was able to come to the realization that has since then freed me of my insecurities: every person who passes by me is living a life just as vivid and complex as my own, with their own thoughts and perceptions; everyone has their own image of me in their head, and  because none are a fully correct representation of who I am , I should not be concerned with trying to modify them. And what I learned from the hours I resided immersed on the internet was that what defines me is not my looks, but what I have to say.  My life was not mine if I cared constantly about what others thought. The internet was my catalyst for change, and slowly, I started to blossom.  Fear of judgement had once stopped me from seeking opportunities, and I sought to change that. I began to branch out and engage with new people.  My makeup was no longer a mask, but instead a tool I used to enhance the features that I now love.  I am proud of my unique features and refuse to let anyone make me feel the way I used to feel. Though I will never be able to erase the scarred little girl from my past, I would not want to because she has made me strong from what she endured.  I want to be Asian.

 Review: 

A - Very Good The essay is well-written and demonstrates a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is engaging and effective. It is likely to make a positive impression on the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →