Prompt: 

Common App Prompt #5:  Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.  (250-650 words)

 Essay: 

First impressions are everything—even in kindergarten. I was born with Nonsyndromic Aplasia Cutis Congenita.  Basically, I have had a scar on my head since birth, and hair couldn't always grow over it.  Up until fourth grade, when I underwent two hair transplants that would allow me to slowly grow hair over my scar, it was definitely noticeable. What I remember vividly about kindergarten is my new peers glaring at my shiny head with a puzzled look.  I learned about my classmates through their lunchbox covers and backpack designs; they saw me as the boy with the scar. It had a nice ring to it, but I wasn’t a fan. Unfortunately, that’s what I imagined everyone saw first, and first impressions stick. In elementary school, it was still my defining characteristic—what separated me from a  sea of collared t-shirts and cargo shorts.  As I began first grade, the questions started.  In retrospect, they were harmless,  but they made me feel alienated. I would try to shrug them off, but the benign inquisitions furthered the self-created idea that I was different than my classmates because of something I couldn’t fix. The idea of my peers seeing only my bare scalp when they looked at me,  whether true or not, was a nightmare I couldn’t shake.  It was my most distinct feature, but I didn’t want it to be defining. So, I applied myself to my activities. No matter what it was, I always tried to stand out so I wouldn’t be seen as the boy with the scar anymore.  My hair wasn’t something I could control, but my personality was.  I wanted to build an identity on my interests and attributes, not have one automatically assigned because of a birth mark. From  art to sports  to being one of the only first graders on elementary student council, my desire to distract my peers from my scar was the reason I pushed myself to try new things and work at them, even if it wasn’t for the best reason. As I grew up with it and  found hobbies that I genuinely enjoyed doing  and talking about, I slowly became more comfortable with the attention that I once shied away from.  I found a way, through my activities and interests, to feel comfortable in my skin, whether there was hair on it or not. I remember walking out of the operating room after my second surgery with a new sense of self, ready to be a different person with a re-created identity and a full head of hair.  That didn’t happen.  I went back to school as the same person I was before, and that was exactly what I wanted—I just didn’t know it then. For so long I felt restricted by my scar.  It wasn’t until hair started growing when I realized I never really was. I didn’t have a sudden epiphany  about my scar after the surgery, nor did I feel like a new person. By that point in my life, I had figuratively grown into my scar just as I grew into my brother’s hand-me-downs. I found and focused on my interests, and from them I developed an identity that I was proud of, well before I went under the knife. A caveat of my surgery was that the hair would grow, then one-third would fall off. My scar will never be completely gone, but I no longer feel defined by it like I did in elementary school. Neither the surgeries or my search for a more redeeming quality completely changed my life, but both experiences made me more confident in my self-perception.  I can be whatever I want to be; a scar can’t change that.  It just took two surgeries and years of nail biting and pushing myself at my activities, some of which I still partake in and am passionate about today, to realize it.

 Review: 

A Excellent The essay is well-written and demonstrates a strong display of ideas and genuine personality. The writing style is engaging and effective. It is likely to be very well-received by the admissions committee. Learn about how we evaluate essays →

 Why This Essay Works 

Positive Feedback: 
Strong Hook : An effective hook doesn't need to be complicated. Often, the best hooks are simple, declarative sentences. By using a short sentence, you'll immediately draw the reader into your essay and create a point of emphasis. In general, avoid long and meandering sentences to start your essay, and save those for later in your essay. Clear and succinct phrasing is often the hallmark of a strong hook. Exemplifies Ideas Using Tangible Anecdotes : To convey your ideas more strongly, show them using concrete examples. In this essay, the author does a great job of that by not saying "classmates only saw me for my scar," but instead showing that idea through the memorable image of "I learned about my classmates through their lunchbox covers...they saw me as the boy with the scar." Using tangible imagery makes for a compelling way of expressing your ideas, as it allows the reader to come to the conclusions you want them to, without just "telling" them. Not Overly Dramatized : Avoid exaggerating or "fluffing up" experiences in your essays. Instead, be realistic and tell them for what they are. This essay does that perfectly by using phrases like "I didn't have a sudden epiphany about my scar." Avoid using phrases like "suddenly, I..." which are often overused and unrealistic. Most new understandings aren't acquired in one moment in particular, but are developed over time.

Negative Feedback: 
Deeper Reflections : This essay touches on some compelling ideas, such as how people can distill down other people into their physical attributes or ailments. However, it would be even stronger to delve deeper into these reflections by asking further questions: Why do we gravitate towards "categorizing" people based on surface-level attributes? What is the impact of only be acknowledged for surface-level characteristics  by others, but knowing that you have much more depth to your character? This essay has some meaningful ideas, but other ideas such as "I can be whatever I want to be" feel surface-level and somewhat generic.

